---
layout: post
comments: True
date: 20210125
title: "[D] Why you should get your PhD"
source_url: https://www.reddit.com/r/MachineLearning/comments/k2pd9n/d_why_you_should_get_your_phd/
topics: [[[PhD]]]
tags: [literature]
status: in-progress
---

Links: [[PhD]]

-   things that make PhD good:
    -   A productive relationship with your advisor/supervisor.
    -   learn about interesting topics without expectation of concrete output.
    -   Day to day work which matches the skill set you want to develop
    -   build a project based on your own ideas
    -   The expertise of the lab and your ability to collaborate, receive feedback and socialise with them
    -   intern with industry
    -   Publishing your work at top tier conferences and journals
-   tips to select the right PhD
    -   check if advisor's work is interesting and previous successful students worked with him
    -   pressure to publish?
    -   select a skill that will add additional value to your PhD after completion
    -   narrow project or broader? Does advisor publish on different topics? Are they related? High or low quality work?
    -   meet current lab members, know their exprtise, collabrate with them
    -   internship during PhD is great
    -   do lab members publish in top tier conf. regularly? What are the citations for papers?
-   sunk cost fallacy

    -   When thinking about your existing projects and future projects, don’t be afraid to change tack if you worked hard on an idea and it just isn’t panning out
    -   don’t be afraid to change supervisor and or people you collaborate with if you honestly gave it your best shot and things are not working out

-   you've really got to want it, and know why you're doing it.
