---
layout: post
comments: True
date: 20210125
title: "Billionaires Build"
source_url: http://paulgraham.com/ace.html
tags: [literature]
status: in-progress
---

[[Career]] [[Startup]]

How to be a successful YC founder:

1. whether what you're making will ever be something a lot of people want\
2. You build something to serve one location, and then expand to others.
    1. There have to be some people who want what you're building right now, and want it so urgently that they're willing to use it, bugs and all, even though you're a small company they've never heard of.
    2. Who are your first users going to be, and how do you know they want this? If I had to decide whether to fund startups based on a single question, it would be "How do you know people want this?"
    3. The best thing you can do in a YC interview is to teach the partners about your users. So if you want to prepare for your interview, one of the best ways to do it is to go talk to your users and find out exactly what they're thinking. Which is what you should be doing anyway.
3. Competitors are rarely what kills startups. Poor execution does.
4. The partners don't expect your idea to be perfect
5. in most ambitious undertakings: to be genuinely interested in what you're building. This is what really drives billionaires, or at least the ones who become billionaires from starting companies. The company is their project.
6. One thing few people realize about billionaires is that all of them could have stopped sooner. They could have gotten acquired, or found someone else to run the company. Many founders do. The ones who become really rich are the ones who keep working.
